
===== PDF PAGE 1 =====
ForeAct: Steering Y our VLA with Efﬁcient Visual Foresight Planning
Zhuoyang Zhang1* † Shang Y ang1* † Qinghao Hu1 Luke J. Huang 1
James Hou1,3 Y ufei Sun1 Y ao Lu2 Song Han1,2
1MIT 2NVIDIA 3Caltech
https://github.com/mit-han-lab/foreact
Subtask 0: 
  Grab the bottle and …
Prediction 0
Observation 0
Robot 
with 
VLA  
Observation 1
Subtask 1: 
  Put the bottle into …
Robot 
with 
VLA  
Prediction 1
Observation 2
Subtask 2: 
  Pick up the tissue …
Robot 
with 
VLA  
Prediction 2
…
Observation N
Subtask N: 
  Task is complete.
Prediction N
……
……
Visual Foresight Planning 
The Real-world Environment
Task: Clean up the trash on the desk.
Observation 0
Robot 
with 
VLA  
Observation 1
Robot 
with 
VLA  
Observation 2
Robot 
with 
VLA  
…
Observation N
The Real-world Environment
Task: Clean up the trash on the desk. …
Fail
❌
Succeed
✅
(a) VLA with high-level human instruction.  
(b) VLA with visual foresight planning. 
Figure 1. Illustration of Visual Foresight Planning (ForeAct). Instead of relying on a single high-level human instruction, our visual
foresight planner guides the VLA step-by-step using imagined future observations and subtask descriptions. This design allows the VLA
to concentrate on visuo-motor inference rather than high-level semantic reasoning, leading to improved accuracy and better generalization.
Abstract
Vision-Language-Action (VLA) models convert high-level
language instructions into concrete, executable actions, a
task that is especially challenging in open-world environ-
ments. We present Visual F oresight Planning (F oreAct), a
general and efﬁcient planner that guides a VLA step-by-
step using imagined future observations and subtask de-
scriptions. With an imagined future observation, the VLA
can focus on visuo-motor inference rather than high-level
semantic reasoning, leading to improved accuracy and gen-
*Equal Contribution.
†Part of the work done during an internship at NVIDIA.
eralization. Our planner comprises a highly efﬁcient fore-
sight image generation module that predicts a high-quality
640×480 future observation from the current visual input
and language instruction within only 0.33s on an H100
GPU, together with a vision-language model that reasons
over the task and produces subtask descriptions for both the
generator and the VLA. Importantly, state-of-the-art VLAs
can integrate our planner seamlessly by simply augment-
ing their visual inputs, without any architectural modiﬁca-
tion. The foresight generator is pretrained on over 1 million
multi-task, cross-embodiment episodes, enabling it to learn
robust embodied dynamics. We evaluate our framework on
a benchmark that consists of 11 diverse, multi-step real-
world tasks. It achieves an average success rate of 87.4%,
1
arXiv:2602.12322v1  [cs.RO]  12 Feb 2026

===== PDF PAGE 2 =====
demonstrating a +40.9% absolute improvement over the π0
baseline (46.5%) and a +30.3% absolute improvement over
π0 augmented with textual subtask guidance (57.1%).
1. Introduction
People have been working hard to enhance the physi-
cal intelligence of embodied systems, aiming to develop ro-
bust and general robots to help humans solve a wide range
of tasks in the real world. A truly general robot should
be capable of handling complex, diverse, unstructured en-
vironments and performing tasks that go far beyond pre-
programmed routines. For example, it should be able to
manipulate a variety of household objects, assist with daily
chores such as cooking, cleaning, or organizing spaces, and
adapt its behavior when encountering new tools or unfamil-
iar layouts.
Recently, vision-language-action (VLA) models [5–7, 9–
11, 25, 27, 29, 32, 35, 37, 44, 46, 47, 54, 57] have emerged
as a promising direction for developing general-purpose
robots. These models learn a direct mapping from visual
observations and language instructions to robotic actions in
an end-to-end manner. However, most existing VLAs still
excel only at simple tasks (e.g., picking up an object and
placing it in a designated location), falling short of the broad
capabilities we ultimately expect. We posit that one key
factor underlying this limitation is the difﬁculty VLAs face
in grounding high-level language instructions into concrete,
executable action sequences.
This raises the question: what if we provide VLAs with
visual instructions rather than relying solely on language?
Instead of merely telling a robot what to do, could we show
it how to do it? For instance, when asking a robot to clean
a table, supplying an image of the table after cleaning of-
fers richer guidance, potentially simplifying task execution.
Y et, in real-world settings, a fully ﬁnal state may not always
be attainable, and even when available, it often remains too
abstract, omitting the intermediate steps necessary for exe-
cution. For example, cleaning a table including picking up
the coke can, the water bottle, and the crumpled tissue, and
then disposing of them in the trash bin one by one. This mo-
tivates a further inquiry: is it possible to provide robots with
step-by-step visual instructions, enabling them to follow a
visually guided sequence toward task completion?
To this end, we propose Visual F oresight Planning (F ore-
Act), a general and efﬁcient planning framework that in-
structs the VLA with visual guidance step-by-step. At the
core of our approach is an efﬁcient foresight image genera-
tor. It acts as a world model that conditions on the current
observation and the language instruction to predict future
observations. The generator is pretrained on over 1 million
multi-task, cross-embodiment episodes curated from open-
source datasets [9, 27, 48, 50], enabling it to learn robust em-
bodied dynamics. Complementing this generator, we incor-
porate a vision-language model [3] to reason about complex
tasks and infer appropriate subtasks, which are then pro-
vided to both the foresight generator and the VLA. These
two components constitute our F oreActframework. By sup-
plying imagined future observations, our method substan-
tially reduces the difﬁculty for VLAs in grounding high-
level language instructions into concrete actions. Conse-
quently, the VLA model can focus solely on visuo-motor
inference rather than high-level semantic reasoning, leading
to improved accuracy and generalization. Notably, state-of-
the-art VLAs can seamlessly integrate our visual guidance
simply by augmenting their visual inputs, without requiring
any architectural modiﬁcations.
We highlight the efﬁciency of our visual foresight plan-
ner. Running on an H100 GPU, the foresight image gen-
eration takes only 0.33s. This demonstrates the practical-
ity of our planner for real-world closed-loop control. To
assess its effectiveness, we conduct comprehensive eval-
uations across 11 diverse real-world tasks. Our method
achieves an average success rate of 87.4%, demonstrating
a +40.9% absolute improvement over the π0 [7] baseline
(46.5%) and a +30.3% absolute improvement over π0 aug-
mented with textual subtask guidance (57.1%).
2. Related Work
Vision-Language-Action Models. Vision-language-action
(VLA) models integrate vision, language and action in a sin-
gle policy, enabling robots to interpret human instructions
and act on them. Early approaches [ 1, 8, 14] demonstrated
the potential of multimodal policies for instruction-guided
manipulation. More recently, state-of-the-art methods [ 5–
7, 9–11, 25, 27, 29, 32, 35, 37, 44, 46, 47, 54, 57] have
advanced by ﬁne-tuning pretrained vision-language models
on large-scale robotic datasets, enabling direct mapping
from visual-language instructions to robot actions. Repre-
sentative works including RT-2 [57], OpenVLA [29], π0 [7],
π0.5 [25], GR00T-N1 [5], Gemini Robotics [46] have shown
unprecedented capabilities and achieved remarkable per-
formance on real-world robot tasks. However, they still
struggle with complex tasks and generalizing to novel
scenarios. Our proposed Visual Foresight Planning method
can enhance the VLA ’s accuracy and generalization.
Robotic Planning and Reasoning. Instead of directly map-
ping human instructions to robot actions, recent works try
to decompose the complex tasks into a sequence of sim-
pler sub-tasks before action execution. One line of research
unify planning and control within a single model [17, 25, 38,
52]. However, such uniﬁcation introduces signiﬁcant chal-
lenges: (1) VLA models typically employ relatively small
vision-language backbones (e.g., 3B parameters) to reduce
latency, which limits their capacity for complex reasoning;
and (2) ﬁne-tuning these models on robot data often leads to
2

===== PDF PAGE 3 =====
ImGen 
Visual Foresight
Visual Foresight Planning
Robot System
VLA 
Action Generator
VLM 
Subtask Planner
Robot Control System
Subtask
predicted observation 
Image Input Image Output
Close 
Loopleft_cam1 head_cam2 3right_cam
2
123
+
Actions
4+
4
5
6
Figure 2. Overview of our ForeAct framework. The VLM-
based subtask planner takes the robot’s head-camera observation
and generates a subtask instruction for the Foresight Image Gen-
eration (ImGen) module. ImGen then predicts the future observa-
tion, which is fed into the VLA model together with the subtask
instruction and the robot’s three camera views. These modules op-
erate jointly to enable closed-loop control.
catastrophic forgetting, thereby compromising their general-
purpose capabilities. Another line of research adopts a hier-
archical framework [ 21, 23, 24, 34, 38, 42, 43, 45, 52, 53]
that delegates planning and reasoning to a separate model.
This design mitigates the risk of catastrophic forgetting and
enables planning and reasoning to be performed by more ca-
pable models. However, it does not fundamentally alleviate
the intrinsic challenge faced by VLA models in grounding
high-level language instructions into concrete actions. In
contrast, our planner provides a more detailed visual guid-
ance, let the VLA focus on visuomotor inference.
Visual Prediction for Robot Control. Integrating visual
prediction into the control loop is a key advance to enable
lookahead planning. Earlier works [ 16, 39] ﬁrst investi-
gated the beneﬁt of visual prediction in model-based RL.
SuSIE [6] generates goal images that guide diffusion policy
models. COT-VLA [ 55] generates goal images and actions
inside a uniﬁed model. More recently, with the development
of video generation, people start to explore the use of video
generation for robot control [ 2, 4, 15, 18, 22, 26, 30, 56].
While conceptually appealing, existing video-generation-
based methods face key limitations: (1) slow and com-
putationally expensive inference, (2) predominantly open-
loop designs that ignore environmental feedback, and (3)
incompatibility with state-of-the-art pretrained VLAs. Our
method is efﬁcient and general, that can be integrated with
the state-of-the-art VLAs in a closed-loop manner.
3. Method
In this section, we ﬁrst present ForeAct with a structured
formulation in Section 3.1. We then introduce the efﬁcient
foresight image generation model, which is the core of our
method, in Section 3.2. After that, we illustrate how we use
VLM for reasoning and monitoring in Section 3.3. Finally,
we show how to seamlessly integrate our method with VLA
models in Section 3.4 and how we deploy the whole system
in Section 3.5.
3.1. Visual Foresight Planning (ForeAct)
VLA. Modern state-of-the-art VLAs are generally imple-
mented as language-conditioned models, which aim to learn
the conditional distribution
π(At | It, qt, l)
where At = [ at, at+1, · · · , at+H−1] is a chunk of actions
of length H, It = [ I 1
t , I2
t , · · · , IK
t ] is the current visual ob-
servation from multiple cameras, qt is the proprioceptive
states from the robot, and l is the language instruction.
VLA with ForeAct. Our key insight is to introduce a visual
foresight planner to enhance the VLA model. With ForeAct,
the conditional distribution is reformulated as follows:
π(At | It, qt, l) = πl(At | [It, Gt], qt, lt)πh(Gt, lt | It, l)
πh is our visual foresight planner, it provides the predicted
future observation Gt and subtask description lt condi-
tioned on the current observation and the overall task de-
scription. πl is the VLA model, it takes the predicted future
observation Gt as an additional visual input and the subtask
description lt as the language condition to generate actions.
Speciﬁcally, πh is implemented with two components:
πh(Gt, lt | It, l) = πg(Gt | It, lt)πv(lt | It, l)
At the core is the foresight image generation model πg,
which grounds the high-level language instruction into a
concrete predicted future observation. Complementing this,
πv is a VLM to reason over the complex task and infer the
subtask. Figure 2 illustrates the overall pipeline of our Fore-
Act framework.
3.2. Efﬁcient Foresight Image Generation
Our core idea is to predict an imagined future observa-
tion that clearly guides the VLA model, rather than relying
on solely language instructions. We design the foresight im-
age generation model to closely approximate the actual fu-
ture observation. To preserve generalization across hetero-
geneous robotic platforms, the model is conditioned solely
on visual observations and language instructions, excluding
other modalities such as robot proprioceptive states. For
better adaptability and efﬁciency, we generate the foresight
image only for the head camera, which captures the global
scene and thus provides the most informative context.
Model Architecture. Modern robots typically employ
high-resolution cameras (e.g., 640×480 or even 1280×720)
to capture detailed visual information. Consequently, our
3

===== PDF PAGE 4 =====
…
…
DC-
AE
Linear Attn
Cross Attn
Mix FFN
System Prompt: You are a 
robot and should focus on your 
actions. Generate a new image 
that meets the user's 
instruction while maintaining 
consistency with the original 
input where appropriate.
Instruction: Place the makeup 
cotton pads into the blue box.
…
Small LM
Time Emb
Linear DiT (N x Blocks)
…
Noise 
Tokens
DC-
AE
Figure 3. Foresight image generation model. The current obser-
vation is ﬁrst encoded into compact visual tokens and concatenated
with a noise input, then fed into the efﬁcient linear DiT model to
generate the predicted visual tokens, which are subsequently de-
coded into the future observation. In addition, the instruction and
a specially designed system prompt are incorporated to guide the
model’s attention toward the robot’s actions.
foresight image generation model must also support high-
resolution outputs to preserve ﬁne details and subtle move-
ments. Moreover, the generation must be efﬁcient to be en-
gaged in the real-world closed-loop control. Inspired by re-
cent advances in efﬁcient image generation, we adopt the ar-
chitectural design of the state-of-the-art model SANA [ 51].
SANA employs a 32 × deep compression autoencoder [ 12]
to encode images into a compact latent space, substantially
reducing the number of latent tokens. It also utilizes a linear
DiT architecture to enable efﬁcient attention computation at
high resolutions. However, SANA is originally designed for
text-to-image generation and thus cannot directly process
image conditions. To address this limitation, we concate-
nate the conditioned image with the noise input, thereby
transforming the denoising process into a conditional de-
noising task. The detailed model architecture of our fore-
sight image generation model is illustrated in Figure 3.
Pre-training Dataset. We collect a large and diverse open-
source cross-embodiment dataset for pre-training, allow-
ing the model to learn generalizable embodied dynamics
through foresight image generation. Speciﬁcally, we collect
data from the AgiBot-World Colosseo [ 9], RoboMind [ 50],
Galaxea Open-World [ 27], and Bridge [ 48] datasets. We
exclude datasets such as Open-X-Embodiment [ 41] and
DROID [28] due to their relatively low camera resolution.
Our collected dataset covers a wide range of robot embodi-
ments as shown in the right panel of Figure 4.
Data Preprocessing. After collecting the datasets, we pre-
process the data to suit our requirements. Tasks in AgiBot-
World Colosseo, RoboMind, and Galaxea Open-World are
typically complex and long-horizon, so we decompose them
into subtasks. They already provide detailed subtask seg-
mentations, which we directly adopt for task splitting. In
contrast, the Bridge dataset contains relatively simple tasks,
so we use the provided task descriptions directly without
further subdivision. After preprocessing, the number of sub-
tasks from each dataset is shown in the left panel of Figure
(a) Num of subtasks (b) Diverse robot embodiments
Figure 4. (a) Number of subtasks from each dataset. Our data
comes from a wide range of sources, and preprocessing yields a
total of 1.16 million subtasks. (b) Diverse robot embodiments
in the pre-training dataset. The collected dataset covers a wide
range of robot embodiments.
4, with a total number of 1.16 million subtasks.
Within each subtask, we sample condition frames at 1-
second intervals. For each condition frame, we choose a
future frame that comes half a subtask’s length later in time.
We set this offset to half the subtask length because it gives
frame pairs that clearly show meaningful action changes.
The paired language instruction is the description of the
robot’s action of the subtask. After sampling, we get a total
of approximately 10 million data pairs for pre-training.
Training Details. Following SANA, we adopt ﬂow match-
ing as our training objective. All images are resized to
640Œ480 during training. We initialize our model with
SANA-1.6B-512px’s pre-trained weights to leverage its
strong image-generation priors. The global batch size is set
to 512, and training is conducted for 800K steps on 64 H100
GPUs. We leverage a constant learning rate of 5e-5 with 5K
steps warmup.
3.3. VLM for Reasoning and Monitoring
In our ForeAct framework, the VLM operates in a
reason-execute-monitor cycle. Given the overall task de-
scription and the current observation, it ﬁrst reasons by gen-
erating an immediate, actionable subtask. After the VLA
executes the actions, the VLM monitors by assessing the
updated state, tracking progress, and re-planning the next
subtask if the current subtask is completed. This hierar-
chy enables the VLA model to dynamically recover from
execution failures and adapt to environmental uncertainties,
yielding robust and scalable performance across complex
real-world tasks.
3.4. Adapt to VLA Models
When integrating ForeAct, the VLA model requires no
architectural modiﬁcations as we only augment the visual
input. During VLA ﬁne-tuning, we concatenate the current
observation with a future observation to form the visual in-
put. During inference, the generated foresight image is ap-
4

===== PDF PAGE 5 =====
Figure 5. Examples of tasks in our real-world dataset.
pended to the current observation to serve as the visual in-
put, while the generated subtask instruction serves as the
language input to the ﬁne-tuned VLA model. This design
requires minimal adjustments, thereby enabling seamless in-
tegration of our ForeAct with existing VLA models.
3.5. Cloud-Edge Closed-Loop Deployment
To achieve responsive, closed-loop control for real-world
robotics, we design a hierarchical cloud-edge deployment
pipeline. The workﬂow begins with the edge host respon-
sible for reactive local control, which captures and sends
the observation to the remote cloud server. This server, spe-
cialized for reasoning and foresight generation (hosting the
VLM and image generator with vLLM [31]), performs high-
level planning and distills the result into a dual-guidance
packet (textual lt, visual Gt). This packet is then returned
to the edge host, where the local VLA policy performs rapid
inference to dispatch the ﬁnal action. In our setting, we de-
ploy the visual foresight planner on an H100 GPU, and the
VLA on a RTX 5090 GPU.
4. Experiments
4.1. Setups
Robot System. We collect our real-world data on the
Galaxea R1 Lite [ 19], a dual-arm mobile manipulator
equipped with 23 degrees of freedom (6-DoF chassis, 3-
DoF torso, and two 7-DoF arms). The platform also fea-
tures a comprehensive multi-view perception suite, includ-
ing a head-mounted stereo camera and two wrist-mounted
monocular depth cameras.
Comprehensive Real-World Dataset. We collect a com-
prehensive and challenging real-world dataset consisting of
11 tasks that simulate activities in Kitchen, Workspace, and
Factory with varying levels of difﬁculty.
• Kitchen: Tasks involve diverse object manipulation in
kitchen environments, ranging from simple conditional
placements (e.g., pick one of ﬁve vegetables on a plate ) to
multi-stage sequential operations ( e.g., stack three bowls
on a plate ) and complex dual-arm sorting ( e.g., classify
tabletop waste into bins using single or dual arms ).
• Workspace: Tasks emphasize typical ofﬁce organization
routines, scaling from basic interactions (e.g., put a pen in
a drawer) to complex, multi-step arrangements involving
multiple objects ( e.g., organize a study desk by placing
pens, staplers, and tape into their designated containers).
• Factory: Tasks simulate industrial kitting and assembly
procedures, including basic tool retrieval ( e.g., place a
speciﬁed tool into a box ), item packing ( e.g., pack ﬂow-
ers into a box ) and instance-level sorting ( e.g., separate
different masks into different boxes).
We provide example tasks of our real-world dataset
in Figure 5. In total, we collect 420 episodes. Each
episode is then decomposed into subtasks, resulting in 2,312
subtask-level episodes. We randomly sample 50 episodes
to construct the in-distribution test set, the remaining 370
episodes are used for ﬁnetuning the foresight image genera-
tion model and the VLA model.
4.2. Efﬁcient Foresight Image Generation
We have already pretrained the foresight image genera-
tion model on a comprehensive and diverse dataset. For
deployment in our speciﬁc setting, we perform lightweight
ﬁnetuning to adapt to our speciﬁc robot type and the new
environment. We ﬁnetune the foresight image generation
model on our collected real-world data. We use a batch size
of 32 and run for 5 epochs. We leverage a constant learning
rate of 1e-5 with no warmup.
Effectiveness of Large-scale Pre-training. To demon-
strate the effectiveness of the pretraining, we also con-
duct an experiment in which the foresight image generation
model is trained using only our self-collected data without
robot data pretraining. For fair comparison, the from scratch
training follows the same settings as the ﬁnetuning.
We evaluate the generated images under both in-
distribution and out-of-distribution test settings. The in-
distribution setting corresponds to tasks and environments
that match those seen during training, although the ob-
ject layouts may differ. Since layout variations are also
present in the training data, we consider these cases as
in-distribution. The out-of-distribution setting involves
changes to either the task or the environment. For exam-
ple, the robot may be required to manipulate a different ob-
ject within the same environment, such as picking the corn
in the packing ﬂower environment. For the in-distribution
evaluation, we sample 50 observations from the test split of
our dataset; for the out-of-distribution evaluation, we design
and collect 50 new observations.
5

===== PDF PAGE 6 =====
Table 1. Quantitative results of foresight image generation. The
scores are averaged over 50 images for both in-distribution and out-
of-distribution tasks.
In distribution Out of distribution
Type Fidelity Quality Fidelity Quality
w/o pretraining 0.18 0.24 0.00 0.00
w/ pretraining 1.00 1.00 0.88 0.96
Figure 6. Qualitative results of foresight image generation. The
ﬁrst row shows the model without pretraining and the second row
shows the model with pretraining. The task is to pick up the corn.
We generate four images for each model with different random
seeds.
We assess generation performance from two perspec-
tives: (1) image ﬁdelity, which measures whether the gener-
ated image accurately follows the subtask instruction and
lies on the correct path toward task completion; and (2)
image quality, which evaluates whether the generated im-
age preserves the detailed information of the original im-
age without introducing signiﬁcant distortions. Both crite-
ria are scored via human evaluation, where each image is
scored as 1 if it satisﬁes the requirement and 0 otherwise.
As shown in Table 1, the foresight image generation model
with pretraining achieves substantially better performance
than the model trained from scratch. Without pretraining,
the model completely fails on out-of-distribution tasks and
obtains only very low scores on in-distribution tasks, in-
dicating that it learns virtually no generalizable capability.
In contrast, our pretrained model consistently attains high
scores on both in-distribution and out-of-distribution tasks,
demonstrating the effectiveness of the pretraining.
We also provide a qualitative example for an out-of-
distribution task in Figure 6. The task is to pick up the
corn. We generate four images for each model with dif-
ferent random seeds. The ﬁrst row shows the model with-
out pretraining, which can not generate the correct predicted
image. The second row shows the model with pretraining,
which generates the correct predicted image across all the
four images, showing the effectiveness of the pretraining.
Discussion with Image Editing Models. Our foresight
image generation model conditions on the current obser-
vation (image) and a subtask instruction (text) to produce
the predicted next-step image. This workﬂow is closely re-
lated to that of image-editing models, which raises the ques-
Gemini 2.5 Flash Image GPT-Image Qwen-Edit
Observation
Prompt: Move the robot arm towards the rubbish bin and place the bottle into it.
Prompt: Move the robot arm towards the plate and place the carrot onto it.
Figure 7. Qualitative results of image editing models. State-of-
the-art image-editing models lack an understanding of the underly-
ing real-world physics and object dynamics. They can not generate
the correct predicted image with correct robot action.
step=1, latency=0.13s
step=2, latency=0.16sstep=4, latency=0.20sstep=8, latency=0.33s
Figure 8. Latency measurement of foresight image generation.
Our foresight image generation model is able to generate a high-
quality 640×480 imagined future observation in 0.33 seconds on
an H100 GPU.
tion: Can state-of-the-art image-editing models handle our
task? To investigate this, we provide a qualitative compari-
son in Figure 7 and evaluate several state-of-the-art image-
editing models, including Gemini 2.5 Flash Image [ 13],
GPT-Image [40], and Qwen-Edit [ 49]. As shown in the ﬁrst
example, all three models make almost no meaningful mod-
iﬁcations to the scene. In the second example, although the
ﬁrst model slightly adjusts the arm, it produces an unnatural
grasp of the carrot, while the other two models directly hal-
lucinate a carrot on the plate instead of manipulating the ex-
isting one. These failure cases indicate that state-of-the-art
image-editing models lack an understanding of the underly-
ing real-world physics and object dynamics, thus can not be
used to handle our task. Moreover, due to their large param-
eter sizes, these models incur substantial inference latency,
making them impractical for use in closed-loop control.
Latency Measurement. We evaluate the latency of our
foresight image generation model on an H100 GPU, where
the planner is deployed. Because latency is critical for
closed-loop control, minimizing generation time is essen-
tial. A straightforward approach is to reduce the number
of denoising steps. As shown in Figure 8, extremely small
step counts (e.g., 1-2) lead to severe artifacts, whereas us-
ing 8 steps yields visually reliable predictions. Increasing
the step count beyond 8 provides negligible quality improve-
ments. Therefore, in our real-world experiments, we set the
number of steps to 8, resulting in a latency of only 0.33 s.
6

===== PDF PAGE 7 =====
0
20
40
60
80
100
Pick_Veg Place_BowlStack_BowlClean_RubbToy_BlocksPen_DrawerOffice_Desk Pick_Tool Sort_MaskPack_ToolkitPack_Flower Average
87.4
95.0
91.3
85.0
93.4
74.8
82.5
93.0
94.4
95.8
83.3
73.4
57.1
63.3
71.3
60.8
26.6
53.4
46.3
56.8
72.4
70.9
60.0
46.6
46.5
44.3
31.3
56.3
20.0
44.0
50.0
55.7
67.0
87.6
29.2
26.6
   
Success Rate (%)
π0 VLM+π0 Ours
Figure 9. Real-world evaluation of ForeAct framework . Our system consistently outperforms baselines without visual guidance across
all benchmarking tasks. It achieves an average success rate of 87.4%, representing a +30.3% improvement over the VLM-augmented
baseline (VLM + π0) and a +40.9% improvement over the vanilla π0 baseline. Furthermore, it maintains an average success rate of over
70% across all benchmark tasks, demonstrating the robustness of our proposed method.
This demonstrates the efﬁciency of our foresight image gen-
erator and highlights its practicality for real-world closed-
loop control. Although we have not yet incorporated accel-
eration techniques such as distillation or quantization, we
believe further reductions in latency are possible and leave
this exploration for future work.
4.3. Real-World Benchmark Evaluation
Baselines. We set up end-to-end real-world evaluation on
the Galaxea R1 Lite platform [ 19] with the π0 [7] archi-
tecture and ﬁnetuning it on our self-collected data for real-
world adaptation. We compare with the following systems
to illustrate the effectiveness of ForeAct:
• π0: A 3.3B VLA model pretrained on over 10k hours of
robot data. We ﬁnetune it on our self-collected data on
Galaxea R1 Lite platform for real-world adaptation.
• VLM + π0: π0 model augmented with Qwen-3-VL-8B-
Instruct [ 3] model for subtask planning and monitoring.
We ﬁnetune the π0 model on the subtask-level episodes
of our self-collected data, in accordance with the VLM
planning granularity.
• Ours: π0 model enhanced with our ForeAct framework.
In our visual foresight planner, we also employ Qwen-
3-VL-8B-Instruct as the VLM for subtask planning and
monitoring. We ﬁne-tune the π0 model on the subtask-
level episodes from our self-collected dataset, augment-
ing the visual input with a future observation. Speciﬁ-
cally, we use the ﬁnal frame of each subtask episode as
the future observation.
Metrics. We evaluate the performance of the systems
across 11 diverse tasks. Please refer to Sec. A.3 for detailed
description of all our real-world tasks with visual examples.
For each task, we break down the task into "atomic actions"
at the granularity of "approach and grasp" and "move and
place". Then, we score the systems success rate of the
whole task as the ratio of the number of successful "atomic
actions" to the total number of "atomic actions". Mean-
while, if the robot performs any undesired action, such as
picking up any object that is not targeted in the task, we
deduct the score by the value of a single atomic action. If
any atomic action cannot be completed within 5 trials, or the
robot ruins the whole task setting through undesired actions,
we consider the uncompleted "atomic actions" in the task as
failed. For each task, we repeat the evaluation with at least
5 different initial settings (e.g., different object layouts) and
report the average score of each model.
Results. In Figure 9, we demonstrate the evaluation results
on our real-world benchmark. Across all the 11 tasks, our
system achieves the highest success rate, with a +30.3% im-
provement over the VLM + π0 baseline and a +40.9% im-
provement over the vanilla π0 baseline, demonstrating the
effectiveness of our ForeAct.
Particularly, for the tasks such as Pack_Flower and
Toy_Blocks, where the robot need to distinguish different
objects and take different actions according to the object
type, our system surpasses the baseline systems by a great
margin. We attribute this improvement to our visual fore-
sight guidance, which provides the robot with the additional
goal state information rather than brief text instructions. As
a result, the VLA model does not bother to reason which
is the aimed object and what is the intended action, and the
visual guidance helps the VLA model to learn generalizable
visuo-motor skills.
Additionally, to demonstrate the generality and scalabil-
ity of our framework, we also evaluate it with the stronger
π0.5 backbone. As detailed in Table 2, our method consis-
tently outperforms the vanilla π0.5 baseline. Overall, the
average success rate increases from 70.3% to 88.2%, con-
ﬁrming that our visual foresight planning provides essential
enhancement for general VLA models.
4.4. Simulation Benchmark Evaluation
We further validate our method with the LIBERO simula-
tion benchmark [36] with π0.5 [25] model. We evaluated the
7

===== PDF PAGE 8 =====
Table 2. Real-world evaluation with π0.5. On a representative
set of real-world tasks, our method boosts the average success rate
of the highly capable π0.5 model from 70.3% to 88.2%.
Task Name π0.5 Ours Task Name π0.5 Ours
Pick_V eg 60.0 86.6 Ofﬁce_Desk 76.0 85.4
Place_Bowl 75.0 83.3 Pick_Tool 50.0 96.7
Pen_Drawer 68.8 81.3 Pack_Flower 91.8 95.8
Table 3. Simulation evaluation on LIBERO. We evaluate the
success rate (%) of our method integrated with π0.5 against state-
of-the-art VLA baselines including vanilla π0.5.
Method Spatial Object Goal Long A verage
OpenVLA [29] 84.7 88.4 79.2 53.7 76.5
CoT-VLA [55] 87.5 91.6 87.6 69.0 83.9
π0 [7] 96.8 98.8 95.8 85.2 94.2
π0.5 [25] 97.3 98.8 96.9 94.2 96.8
CogVLA [33] 98.6 98.8 96.6 95.4 97.4
Ours (w/π0.5) 97.3 99.8 97.3 95.4 97.5
performance across four standard task suites: Spatial, Ob-
ject, Goal, and Long-horizon (LIBERO_10). The success
rate is averaged over 500 trials for each suite. As shown in
Table 3, our method consistently improves the performance
upon π0.5 baseline that already achieves near-perfect suc-
cess rates, raising the average success rate from 96.8% to
97.5%.
4.5. Generalization to OOD Tasks
We design OOD (Out-Of-Distribution) variants of the
Pick_V eg task to evaluate the generalization capability of
our ForeAct framework. As shown in Figure 10, our Fore-
Act framework remains robust in OOD settings, whereas
baseline models suffer a substantial performance drop.
To better illustrate this, we provide a qualitative exam-
ple in Figure 12. The task requires the robot to put three
different vegetables (a carrot, a bok choy, and an eggplant)
into the plate, a composition of subtasks never seen during
training, where only single-vegetable picking was demon-
strated. As a result, the baseline model (VLM + π0, Fig-
ure 12 (a)) fails to adapt. It gets stuck in a loop, repeat-
edly attempting to grasp the same region where the carrot
was, even though it is now empty. In contrast, the model
augmented with our ForeAct framework successfully com-
pletes this complex OOD task, as shown in Figure 12 (b).
Our framework correctly monitors the task progress and pro-
vides corresponding visual foresight, allowing the VLA to
robustly execute all three distinct subtasks in sequence.
4.6. Data Efﬁciency
We evaluate data efﬁciency on the challenging
Clean_Rubb task by varying the size of the training
0
20
40
60
80
Original + Spatial OOD+ Comp. OOD + Joint OOD
58.4
61.7
76.7
73.4
5.0
20.0
33.4
46.6
12.5
15.0
20.0
26.6
   
Success Rate (%)
π0 VLM+π0 Ours
Figure 10. Quantitative evaluation on OOD variants of the
Pick_V eg task. The x-axis denotes increasingly difﬁcult evalua-
tion settings. Speciﬁcally, Original refers to the in-distribution
setting. + Spatial OOD introduces spatial permutations of ob-
jects that is unseen in the training data. + Comp.OOD assesses
compositional generalization by requiring the model to manipulate
two objects, whereas training only involves single-object tasks. Fi-
nally, + Joint OOD combines both spatial and compositional
shifts.
Training Data Ratio (%) 
Success Rate (%) 
40 
50 
60 
70 
80 
90 
100
20 40 60 80 100
VLM + π 0 Ours
Figure 11. Data efﬁciency analysis on the Clean_Rubb task. We
compare the success rates of our method (red) versus the VLM-
augmented baseline (gray) when trained on data subsets ranging
from 20% to 100%. Our method consistently outperforms the base-
line across all data regimes.
set. As shown in Figure 11, our method exhibits strong
sample efﬁciency: with only 60% of the data, it attains a
>90% success rate, and with just 20% of the data, it still
achieves 79%, substantially outperforming the baseline.
Although the baseline method shows performance gains as
the dataset grows, its rate of improvement is considerably
slower, underscoring the superior data efﬁciency of our
ForeAct approach. Note that for this ablation, we construct
training subsets solely from the Clean_Rubb task data.
Therefore, the success rate at 100% data usage here is
slightly lower than the main benchmark result reported in
the main paper, which beneﬁts from multi-task co-training.
Furthermore, limited ﬁne-tuning data severely constrains
baseline performance. As shown in Fig. 9, while our sys-
tem achieves a 93.4% success rate in the Pick_Tool task,
baselines fall below 30%. Since there are 5 distinct tools
forming 5! = 120 spatial permutations, and the task re-
quires manipulating any one of these ﬁve tools within each
8

===== PDF PAGE 9 =====
(a) The baseline model consistently tries to grasp in regions where no objects are present when facing OOD scenarios.
(b) Our model augmented with Visual Foresight Planning successfully finishes the OOD task.
Figure 12. Qualitative results for a compositional OOD task. The overall instruction is to "put the carrot, bok choy, and eggplant into
the plate," a sequence not seen in training. (a) The baseline (VLM + π0) gets lost in this task, repeatedly trying to grasp the ﬁrst object’s
location even after it is gone. (b) Our method robustly executes all three subtasks with the augmentation of visual guidance for each step.
Table 4. Ablation on instruction modalities for the Pick_Tool
task. We compare standard semantic instructions with spatial-
based text prompts. "Spatial Text" provides location of the tar-
get object, simplifying the task by removing the need for object
grounding.
Method Instruction Type Success Rate (%)↑
Singleπ0 Semantic Text 20.0
Singleπ0 Spatial Text 46.8
Ours Semantic Text + Goal Image 93.4
layout, the total number of unique conﬁgurations reaches
120 × 5 = 600 . Collecting teleoperation trajectories for ev-
ery permutation within the ﬁnetuning data for the single task
is sub-optimal and practically infeasible. Therefore, we hy-
pothesize that baselines fail to generalize in this data-scarce
regime because they struggle to ground task prompts to spe-
ciﬁc tool objects.
To further investigate this, Table 4 presents an ablation
where semantic instructions (e.g., "Pick up the hammer")
are replaced with spatial ones (e.g., "Pick up the object on
the bottom right") in both ﬁnetuning and inference. This
modiﬁcation signiﬁcantly improves baseline accuracy by
decoupling semantic recognition from action execution. By
bypassing the need for the VLA to infer object semantics
from visual observations, the model can dedicate its limited
capacity to action prediction. Nevertheless, these baselines
still lag behind our ForeAct framework, as spatial text re-
mains a coarser and more ambiguous modality compared to
the ﬁne-grained image-based guidance we introduce. These
results collectively suggest that our visual foresight mecha-
nism fundamentally enhances data efﬁciency: by converting
abstract semantic instructions into concrete visual targets,
it reduces the reliance on exhaustive demonstration cover-
age and enables robust generalization even when ﬁne-tuning
data is far too sparse to cover the full combinatorial space
of task conﬁgurations.
5. Conclusion
In this work, we present Visual Foresight Planning (Fore-
Act), a general and efﬁcient planner that instructs VLA mod-
els with step-by-step imagined future observations and sub-
task guidance. By providing imagined future observations,
it allows VLAs to focus on visuo-motor execution, lead-
ing to improved accuracy and generalization. The foresight
image generation inside our planner is efﬁcient, running at
0.33s to produce a 640Œ480 future observation on an H100
GPU. We evaluate our method across 11 diverse real-world
tasks, it achieves an average success rate of 87.4%, out-
performing both vanilla and VLM-augmented baselines by
large margins. Furthermore, it demonstrates strong perfor-
mance in out-of-distribution scenarios. Overall, our results
show that ForeAct is a powerful and practical direction for
enabling more capable and reliable embodied intelligence.
Acknowledgements
We thank MIT-IBM Watson AI Lab, Amazon and Na-
tional Science Foundation for supporting this research. We
thank NVIDIA for donating the DGX server.
References
[1] Michael Ahn, Anthony Brohan, Noah Brown, Y evgen Cheb-
otar, Omar Cortes, Byron David, Chelsea Finn, Chuyuan Fu,
Keerthana Gopalakrishnan, Karol Hausman, et al. Do as i
can, not as i say: Grounding language in robotic affordances.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2204.01691, 2022. 2
[2] Anurag Ajay, Seungwook Han, Yilun Du, Shuang Li, Abhi
Gupta, Tommi Jaakkola, Josh Tenenbaum, Leslie Kaelbling,
Akash Srivastava, and Pulkit Agrawal. Compositional foun-
dation models for hierarchical planning. Advances in Neural
Information Processing Systems, 36:22304–22325, 2023. 3
[3] Shuai Bai, Y uxuan Cai, Ruizhe Chen, Keqin Chen, Xionghui
Chen, Zesen Cheng, Lianghao Deng, Wei Ding, Chang Gao,
Chunjiang Ge, Wenbin Ge, Zhifang Guo, Qidong Huang,
Jie Huang, Fei Huang, Binyuan Hui, Shutong Jiang, Zhao-
9

===== PDF PAGE 10 =====
hai Li, Mingsheng Li, Mei Li, Kaixin Li, Zicheng Lin, Jun-
yang Lin, Xuejing Liu, Jiawei Liu, Chenglong Liu, Y ang Liu,
Dayiheng Liu, Shixuan Liu, Dunjie Lu, Ruilin Luo, Chenxu
Lv, Rui Men, Lingchen Meng, Xuancheng Ren, Xingzhang
Ren, Sibo Song, Y uchong Sun, Jun Tang, Jianhong Tu, Jian-
qiang Wan, Peng Wang, Pengfei Wang, Qiuyue Wang, Y ux-
uan Wang, Tianbao Xie, Yiheng Xu, Haiyang Xu, Jin Xu,
Zhibo Y ang, Mingkun Y ang, Jianxin Y ang, An Y ang, Bowen
Y u, Fei Zhang, Hang Zhang, Xi Zhang, Bo Zheng, Humen
Zhong, Jingren Zhou, Fan Zhou, Jing Zhou, Y uanzhi Zhu,
and Ke Zhu. Qwen3-vl technical report. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2511.21631, 2025. 2, 7
[4] Homanga Bharadhwaj, Debidatta Dwibedi, Abhinav Gupta,
Shubham Tulsiani, Carl Doersch, Ted Xiao, Dhruv Shah,
Fei Xia, Dorsa Sadigh, and Sean Kirmani. Gen2act: Hu-
man video generation in novel scenarios enables generaliz-
able robot manipulation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2409.16283 ,
2024. 3
[5] Johan Bjorck, Fernando Castañeda, Nikita Cherniadev,
Xingye Da, Runyu Ding, Linxi Fan, Y u Fang, Dieter Fox,
Fengyuan Hu, Spencer Huang, et al. Gr00t n1: An open foun-
dation model for generalist humanoid robots. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2503.14734, 2025. 2
[6] Kevin Black, Mitsuhiko Nakamoto, Pranav Atreya, Homer
Walke, Chelsea Finn, Aviral Kumar, and Sergey Levine.
Zero-shot robotic manipulation with pretrained image-
editing diffusion models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.10639 ,
2023. 3
[7] Kevin Black, Noah Brown, Danny Driess, Adnan Esmail,
Michael Equi, Chelsea Finn, Niccolo Fusai, Lachy Groom,
Karol Hausman, Brian Ichter, et al. A vision-language-
action ﬂow model for general robot control. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2410.24164, 2024. 2, 7, 8
[8] Anthony Brohan, Noah Brown, Justice Carbajal, Y evgen
Chebotar, Joseph Dabis, Chelsea Finn, Keerthana Gopalakr-
ishnan, Karol Hausman, Alex Herzog, Jasmine Hsu, et al.
Rt-1: Robotics transformer for real-world control at scale.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2212.06817, 2022. 2
[9] Qingwen Bu, Jisong Cai, Li Chen, Xiuqi Cui, Y an Ding,
Siyuan Feng, Shenyuan Gao, Xindong He, Xuan Hu, Xu
Huang, et al. Agibot world colosseo: A large-scale manipula-
tion platform for scalable and intelligent embodied systems.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.06669, 2025. 2, 4
[10] Qingwen Bu, Y anting Y ang, Jisong Cai, Shenyuan Gao,
Guanghui Ren, Maoqing Y ao, Ping Luo, and Hongyang Li.
Univla: Learning to act anywhere with task-centric latent ac-
tions. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.06111, 2025.
[11] Chilam Cheang, Sijin Chen, Zhongren Cui, Yingdong Hu,
Liqun Huang, Tao Kong, Hang Li, Yifeng Li, Y uxiao Liu,
Xiao Ma, et al. Gr-3 technical report. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2507.15493, 2025. 2
[12] Junyu Chen, Han Cai, Junsong Chen, Enze Xie, Shang Y ang,
Haotian Tang, Muyang Li, Y ao Lu, and Song Han. Deep
compression autoencoder for efﬁcient high-resolution diffu-
sion models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.10733, 2024. 4
[13] Gheorghe Comanici, Eric Bieber, Mike Schaekermann, Ice
Pasupat, Noveen Sachdeva, Inderjit Dhillon, Marcel Blis-
tein, Ori Ram, Dan Zhang, Evan Rosen, et al. Gemini 2.5:
Pushing the frontier with advanced reasoning, multimodality,
long context, and next generation agentic capabilities. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2507.06261, 2025. 6
[14] Danny Driess, Fei Xia, Mehdi SM Sajjadi, Corey Lynch,
Aakanksha Chowdhery, Ayzaan Wahid, Jonathan Tompson,
Quan Vuong, Tianhe Y u, Wenlong Huang, et al. Palm-e: An
embodied multimodal language model. In International Con-
ference on Machine Learning, 2023. 2
[15] Yilun Du, Sherry Y ang, Bo Dai, Hanjun Dai, Oﬁr Nachum,
Josh Tenenbaum, Dale Schuurmans, and Pieter Abbeel.
Learning universal policies via text-guided video genera-
tion. Advances in neural information processing systems, 36:
9156–9172, 2023. 3
[16] Frederik Ebert, Chelsea Finn, Sudeep Dasari, Annie Xie,
Alex Lee, and Sergey Levine. Visual foresight: Model-based
deep reinforcement learning for vision-based robotic control.
arXiv preprint arXiv:1812.00568, 2018. 3
[17] Huang Fang, Mengxi Zhang, Heng Dong, Wei Li, Zixuan
Wang, Qifeng Zhang, Xueyun Tian, Y ucheng Hu, and Hang
Li. Robix: A uniﬁed model for robot interaction, reasoning
and planning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2509.01106, 2025. 2
[18] Y ao Feng, Hengkai Tan, Xinyi Mao, Chendong Xiang,
Guodong Liu, Shuhe Huang, Hang Su, and Jun Zhu. Vidar:
Embodied video diffusion model for generalist manipulation.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2507.12898, 2025. 3
[19] Galaxea Team. R1 Lite Hardware Introduction. https://
docs.galaxea-ai.com/Guide/R1Lite/R1Lite_
Hardware_Introduction/, 2024. 5, 7
[20] Gemini Team. Gemini 3 Website. https://deepmind.
google/models/gemini/, 2025. 13
[21] Yingdong Hu, Fanqi Lin, Tong Zhang, Li Yi, and Y ang
Gao. Look before you leap: Unveiling the power of gpt-
4v in robotic vision-language planning. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2311.17842, 2023. 3
[22] Y ucheng Hu, Y anjiang Guo, Pengchao Wang, Xiaoyu Chen,
Y en-Jen Wang, Jianke Zhang, Koushil Sreenath, Chaochao
Lu, and Jianyu Chen. Video prediction policy: A general-
ist robot policy with predictive visual representations. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2412.14803, 2024. 3
[23] Chi-Pin Huang, Y ueh-Hua Wu, Min-Hung Chen, Y u-
Chiang Frank Wang, and Fu-En Y ang. Thinkact: Vision-
language-action reasoning via reinforced visual latent plan-
ning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2507.16815, 2025. 3
[24] Wenlong Huang, Fei Xia, Ted Xiao, Harris Chan, Jacky
Liang, Pete Florence, Andy Zeng, Jonathan Tompson, Igor
Mordatch, Y evgen Chebotar, et al. Inner monologue: Embod-
ied reasoning through planning with language models. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2207.05608, 2022. 3
[25] Physical Intelligence, Kevin Black, Noah Brown, James
Darpinian, Karan Dhabalia, Danny Driess, Adnan Esmail,
Michael Equi, Chelsea Finn, Niccolo Fusai, et al. π0. 5:
a vision-language-action model with open-world generaliza-
tion. arXiv preprint arXiv:2504.16054, 2025. 2, 7, 8
[26] Joel Jang, Seonghyeon Y e, Zongyu Lin, Jiannan Xiang, Jo-
han Bjorck, Y u Fang, Fengyuan Hu, Spencer Huang, Kaushil
Kundalia, Y en-Chen Lin, et al. Dreamgen: Unlocking gen-
eralization in robot learning through video world models.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.12705, 2025. 3
10

===== PDF PAGE 11 =====
[27] Tao Jiang, Tianyuan Y uan, Yicheng Liu, Chenhao Lu, Jian-
ning Cui, Xiao Liu, Shuiqi Cheng, Jiyang Gao, Huazhe Xu,
and Hang Zhao. Galaxea open-world dataset and g0 dual-
system vla model. arXiv preprint arXiv:2509.00576 , 2025.
2, 4
[28] Alexander Khazatsky, Karl Pertsch, Suraj Nair, Ashwin Bal-
akrishna, Sudeep Dasari, Siddharth Karamcheti, Soroush
Nasiriany, Mohan Kumar Srirama, Lawrence Y unliang Chen,
Kirsty Ellis, et al. Droid: A large-scale in-the-wild robot ma-
nipulation dataset. arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.12945 , 2024.
4
[29] Moo Jin Kim, Karl Pertsch, Siddharth Karamcheti, Ted Xiao,
Ashwin Balakrishna, Suraj Nair, Rafael Rafailov, Ethan
Foster, Grace Lam, Pannag Sanketi, et al. Openvla: An
open-source vision-language-action model. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2406.09246, 2024. 2, 8
[30] Po-Chen Ko, Jiayuan Mao, Yilun Du, Shao-Hua Sun, and
Joshua B Tenenbaum. Learning to act from actionless
videos through dense correspondences. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2310.08576, 2023. 3
[31] Woosuk Kwon, Zhuohan Li, Siyuan Zhuang, Ying Sheng,
Lianmin Zheng, Cody Hao Y u, Joseph Gonzalez, Hao Zhang,
and Ion Stoica. Efﬁcient memory management for large lan-
guage model serving with pagedattention. In Proceedings
of the ACM SIGOPS 29th Symposium on Operating Systems
Principles, 2023. 5
[32] Qixiu Li, Y aobo Liang, Zeyu Wang, Lin Luo, Xi Chen,
Mozheng Liao, Fangyun Wei, Y u Deng, Sicheng Xu,
Yizhong Zhang, et al. Cogact: A foundational vision-
language-action model for synergizing cognition and action
in robotic manipulation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2411.19650 ,
2024. 2
[33] Wei Li, Renshan Zhang, Rui Shao, Jie He, and Liqiang
Nie. Cogvla: Cognition-aligned vision-language-action
model via instruction-driven routing & sparsiﬁcation. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2508.21046, 2025. 8
[34] Jacky Liang, Wenlong Huang, Fei Xia, Peng Xu, Karol Haus-
man, Brian Ichter, Pete Florence, and Andy Zeng. Code as
policies: Language model programs for embodied control.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2209.07753, 2022. 3
[35] Y ue Liao, Pengfei Zhou, Siyuan Huang, Donglin Y ang,
Shengcong Chen, Y uxin Jiang, Y ue Hu, Jingbin Cai, Si Liu,
Jianlan Luo, et al. Genie envisioner: A uniﬁed world foun-
dation platform for robotic manipulation. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2508.05635, 2025. 2
[36] Bo Liu, Yifeng Zhu, Chongkai Gao, Yihao Feng, Qiang Liu,
Y uke Zhu, and Peter Stone. Libero: Benchmarking knowl-
edge transfer for lifelong robot learning. Advances in Neural
Information Processing Systems, 36:44776–44791, 2023. 7
[37] Songming Liu, Lingxuan Wu, Bangguo Li, Hengkai Tan,
Huayu Chen, Zhengyi Wang, Ke Xu, Hang Su, and Jun Zhu.
Rdt-1b: a diffusion foundation model for bimanual manipu-
lation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.07864, 2024. 2
[38] Oier Mees, Jessica Borja-Diaz, and Wolfram Burgard.
Grounding language with visual affordances over unstruc-
tured data. arXiv preprint arXiv:2210.01911, 2022. 2, 3
[39] Suraj Nair and Chelsea Finn. Hierarchical foresight: Self-
supervised learning of long-horizon tasks via visual subgoal
generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:1909.05829, 2019. 3
[40] OpenAI. GPT Image 1 Model Card. https :
/ / platform . openai . com / docs / models / gpt -
image-1, 2025. 6
[41] Abby ONeill, Abdul Rehman, Abhiram Maddukuri, Ab-
hishek Gupta, Abhishek Padalkar, Abraham Lee, Acorn Poo-
ley, Agrim Gupta, Ajay Mandlekar, Ajinkya Jain, et al. Open
x-embodiment: Robotic learning datasets and rt-x models:
Open x-embodiment collaboration 0. In 2024 IEEE Inter-
national Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA) ,
pages 6892–6903. IEEE, 2024. 4
[42] Pratyusha Sharma, Antonio Torralba, and Jacob Andreas.
Skill induction and planning with latent language. In Pro-
ceedings of the 60th Annual Meeting of the Association for
Computational Linguistics (V olume 1: Long Papers) , pages
1713–1726, 2022. 3
[43] Lucy Xiaoyang Shi, Brian Ichter, Michael Equi, Liyim-
ing Ke, Karl Pertsch, Quan Vuong, James Tanner, Anna
Walling, Haohuan Wang, Niccolo Fusai, et al. Hi robot:
Open-ended instruction following with hierarchical vision-
language-action models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.19417 ,
2025. 3
[44] Mustafa Shukor, Dana Aubakirova, Francesco Capuano,
Pepijn Kooijmans, Steven Palma, Adil Zouitine, Michel Ar-
actingi, Caroline Pascal, Martino Russi, Andres Maraﬁoti,
et al. Smolvla: A vision-language-action model for afford-
able and efﬁcient robotics. arXiv preprint arXiv:2506.01844,
2025. 2
[45] Ishika Singh, V alts Blukis, Arsalan Mousavian, Ankit Goyal,
Danfei Xu, Jonathan Tremblay, Dieter Fox, Jesse Thoma-
son, and Animesh Garg. Progprompt: Generating situated
robot task plans using large language models. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2209.11302, 2022. 3
[46] Gemini Robotics Team, Saminda Abeyruwan, Joshua
Ainslie, Jean-Baptiste Alayrac, Montserrat Gonzalez Are-
nas, Travis Armstrong, Ashwin Balakrishna, Robert Baruch,
Maria Bauza, Michiel Blokzijl, et al. Gemini robotics:
Bringing ai into the physical world. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2503.20020, 2025. 2
[47] Octo Model Team, Dibya Ghosh, Homer Walke, Karl
Pertsch, Kevin Black, Oier Mees, Sudeep Dasari, Joey Hejna,
Tobias Kreiman, Charles Xu, et al. Octo: An open-source
generalist robot policy. arXiv preprint arXiv:2405.12213 ,
2024. 2
[48] Homer Rich Walke, Kevin Black, Tony Z Zhao, Quan Vuong,
Chongyi Zheng, Philippe Hansen-Estruch, Andre Wang He,
Vivek Myers, Moo Jin Kim, Max Du, et al. Bridgedata v2:
A dataset for robot learning at scale. In Conference on Robot
Learning, pages 1723–1736. PMLR, 2023. 2, 4
[49] Chenfei Wu, Jiahao Li, Jingren Zhou, Junyang Lin, Kaiyuan
Gao, Kun Y an, Sheng ming Yin, Shuai Bai, Xiao Xu, Yilei
Chen, Y uxiang Chen, Zecheng Tang, Zekai Zhang, Zhengyi
Wang, An Y ang, Bowen Y u, Chen Cheng, Dayiheng Liu, De-
qing Li, Hang Zhang, Hao Meng, Hu Wei, Jingyuan Ni, Kai
Chen, Kuan Cao, Liang Peng, Lin Qu, Minggang Wu, Peng
11

===== PDF PAGE 12 =====
Wang, Shuting Y u, Tingkun Wen, Wensen Feng, Xiaoxiao
Xu, Yi Wang, Yichang Zhang, Y ongqiang Zhu, Y ujia Wu,
Y uxuan Cai, and Zenan Liu. Qwen-image technical report,
2025. 6
[50] Kun Wu, Chengkai Hou, Jiaming Liu, Zhengping Che, Xi-
aozhu Ju, Zhuqin Y ang, Meng Li, Yinuo Zhao, Zhiyuan
Xu, Guang Y ang, et al. Robomind: Benchmark on multi-
embodiment intelligence normative data for robot manipula-
tion. arXiv preprint arXiv:2412.13877, 2024. 2, 4
[51] Enze Xie, Junsong Chen, Junyu Chen, Han Cai, Haotian
Tang, Y ujun Lin, Zhekai Zhang, Muyang Li, Ligeng Zhu,
Y ao Lu, et al. Sana: Efﬁcient high-resolution image syn-
thesis with linear diffusion transformers. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2410.10629, 2024. 4
[52] Michał Zawalski, William Chen, Karl Pertsch, Oier Mees,
Chelsea Finn, and Sergey Levine. Robotic control via
embodied chain-of-thought reasoning. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2407.08693, 2024. 2, 3
[53] Andy Zeng, Maria Attarian, Brian Ichter, Krzysztof Choro-
manski, Adrian Wong, Stefan Welker, Federico Tombari,
Aveek Purohit, Michael Ryoo, Vikas Sindhwani, et al. So-
cratic models: Composing zero-shot multimodal reasoning
with language. arXiv preprint arXiv:2204.00598, 2022. 3
[54] Andy Zhai, Brae Liu, Bruno Fang, Chalse Cai, Ellie Ma,
Ethan Yin, Hao Wang, Hugo Zhou, James Wang, Lights
Shi, et al. Igniting vlms toward the embodied space. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2509.11766, 2025. 2
[55] Qingqing Zhao, Y ao Lu, Moo Jin Kim, Zipeng Fu, Zhuoyang
Zhang, Y echeng Wu, Zhaoshuo Li, Qianli Ma, Song Han,
Chelsea Finn, et al. Cot-vla: Visual chain-of-thought reason-
ing for vision-language-action models. In Proceedings of the
Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition Conference, pages
1702–1713, 2025. 3, 8
[56] Siyuan Zhou, Yilun Du, Jiaben Chen, Y andong Li, Dit-Y an
Y eung, and Chuang Gan. Robodreamer: Learning compo-
sitional world models for robot imagination. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2404.12377, 2024. 3
[57] Brianna Zitkovich, Tianhe Y u, Sichun Xu, Peng Xu, Ted
Xiao, Fei Xia, Jialin Wu, Paul Wohlhart, Stefan Welker,
Ayzaan Wahid, et al. Rt-2: Vision-language-action models
transfer web knowledge to robotic control. In Conference on
Robot Learning, pages 2165–2183. PMLR, 2023. 2
A. Appendix
A.1. Table of Contents
• Sec. A.2: We present additional qualitative foresight gen-
eration results, particularly in out-of-distribution scenar-
ios to highlight the strong generalization of our model.
• Sec. A.3: The detailed descriptions of all our real-world
tasks with visual examples.
• Sec. A.4: Evaluation on different VLMs’ performance as
the high-level task planner.
• Sec. A.5: The prompt we use for the VLM model.
• Sec. A.6: A video demo.
A.2. Qualitative Foresight Generation Results
Figure 14 presents further qualitative results of our fore-
sight image generation model. All scenarios shown are out-
of-distribution, highlighting the strong capability and gen-
eralization of our model. This further demonstrates the ef-
fectiveness of our large-scale pretraining. We provide a de-
tailed discussion of these scenarios below.
• First Row : While all the objects are present in our
dataset, they have never been co-located within the same
scene. Although the dataset contains bowls, we do not
include any scenes in which objects are placed inside a
bowl.
• Second Row: This scenario is similar to Pick_V eg; how-
ever, we introduce fruits (an apple and a banana) into the
scene. Notably, neither apples nor bananas are present in
our dataset.
• Third Row : There is already an apple on the plate. In
the Pick_V eg task, however, we place only a single object
onto the plate.
• Fourth Row: This scenario represents a completely un-
seen setting: all objects, including the new vegetables,
fruits, and the glass bowl, are not present in our dataset.
• Fifth Row: This scenario is similar to Clean_Rubb; how-
ever, instead of placing rubbish into the bin, we place
fruits into it.
• Sixth Row: This task is entirely novel and includes new
objects such as a knife, a fork, and a paper cup. The paper
cup has never been positioned on a plate in our dataset.
A.3. Detailed Task Descriptions
In Table 6 and 7, we provide a comprehensive break-
down, with visual examples, of the 11 real-world robotic
tasks used in our evaluation suite. To rigorously evaluate
the models’ performance, we intentionally introduce distri-
butional shifts between training and inference in some of
the testbenches, such as increasing the number of objects,
randomizing initial poses, or introducing novel distractors.
Please refer to the tables for a summary of the operational
protocol and data distribution for each task.
12

===== PDF PAGE 13 =====
Figure 13. Subtask Planning Accuracy across Different VLMs.
Table 5. The prompt template used for the VLM planner . The
variable {Task} represents the high-level human instruction.
SYSTEM / INITIAL PROMPT ( t = 0)
Y ou are a robot controller. Please plan to ﬁnish the task in
several steps. And give instruction for each step in a concise
way.
The task is to “ {Task}”.
RULES:
• During the job, I will continuously give you an observation
image of the current state.
• Based on the observation, please judge if the last instruction
has been ﬁnished.
– If yes, give me the instruction for the next step.
– If no, repeat the instruction of the ongoing subtask.
• Y ou’re not required to describe the observation. Only output
the instruction for each subtask.
Now, you are only required to output instruction for the ﬁrst
step.
VISUAL INPUT: [Initial Observation Image]
FOLLOW-UP PROMPT (t > 0)
VISUAL INPUT: [Current Observation Image]
Pay attention to the latest observation. Firstly, judge if the last
instruction has been ﬁnished. Secondly, if yes, give me the
instruction for the next step; if no, repeat the instruction of the
ongoing subtask.
Y our answer should be concise and deterministic.
Remember, your Overall Task is “{Task}”.
A.4. Evaluating Performance of VLMs
To assess the generalization capability of our planner,
we employ a rigorous LLM-as-a-Judge protocol. Specif-
ically, we utilize Gemini-3-pro-preview [ 20] to evaluate
the semantic correctness of the VLM-predicted subtasks
on our long-horizon real-world video benchmark. As il-
lustrated in Figure 13, our framework demonstrates strong
model scalability. Both Qwen2.5-VL-32B and Qwen3-VL-
8B achieve competitive performance, effectively steering
the robot through complex tasks. Conversely, the signiﬁcant
performance drop observed with the smaller Qwen2.5-VL-
7B model validates the discriminative nature of our bench-
mark.
A.5. VLM Prompt
To ensure reproducibility, we include the exact prompt
templates we used for the VLM. The interaction is divided
into two stages: the Initial Planning Phase ( t = 0 ) and the
Closed-Loop Monitoring Phase ( t > 0). At t = 0 , upon
receiving the ﬁrst observation, the system applies the Ini-
tial Prompt to specify the task and generate the ﬁrst subtask.
For all subsequent steps ( t > 0), the system transitions to
the F ollow-up Prompt, where the VLM uses the latest ob-
servation to assess progress on the previous instruction and
produce the next one. The full templates for both phases are
provided in Table 5.
A.6. Demo Videos
To provide a more intuitive understanding of our sys-
tem’s real-world robustness, we include three video demon-
strations corresponding to the Out-of-Distribution (OOD)
scenarios as we mentioned in Section 4.3 of the main pa-
per. These demos showcase how our Visual Foresight Plan-
ning framework successfully generalizes to unseen scenar-
ios where baseline methods typically fail.
• Demo 1: Complex Compositions. The robot is tasked
with picking multiple vegetables sequentially, despite be-
ing trained only on single-object manipulation.
• Demo 2: Novel Objects. The robot is tasked with picking
fruits and placing them on a plate, whereas the training
data only contained vegetable manipulation.
• Demo 3: New Conﬁgurations. The robot performs the
Clean_Rubb task under unseen spatial layouts and back-
ground settings. This highlights the planner’s robustness
to novel environmental conditions and object positions.
All videos are available at https://github.com/mit-han-
lab/foreact.
13

===== PDF PAGE 14 =====
Pick the carrot.
Observation Prediction Observation Prediction
Place the carrot into the bowl.
Pick the apple. Place the apple into the plate.
Pick the banana. Place the banana into the plate.
Pick the sweet potato. Place the sweet potato into the glass bowl.
Pick the mango. Place the mango into the rubbish bin.
Pick the paper cup. Place the paper cup onto the plate.
Figure 14. Qualitative Foresight Image Generation Results.
14

===== PDF PAGE 15 =====
Table 6. Overview of robot tasks and descriptions in our real-world dataset (Part I).
Task Example Detailed Description
Pick_Veg
Protocol: The robot must identify and pick a speciﬁc vegetable from a set of ﬁve
and place it onto a plate.
Data: Fine-tuning episodes exclusively feature single-object manipulation.
Evaluation follows this setting unless otherwise speciﬁed (e.g., Fig. 10).
Place_Bowl
Protocol: The robot is required to pick a bowl and place it onto a matching
color-coded plate.
Data: Both training and inference setups involve a single bowl and three plates on
the workspace. The presence of a color-matched plate is guaranteed in every
episode.
Stack_Bowl
Protocol: The robot is required to pick up bowls one by one and stack them onto
the plate.
Data: Both training and inference involve stacking three bowls. During evaluation,
the bowls can either be pre-placed on the desk or introduced at any time.
Clean_Rubb
Protocol: The robot is required to pick up rubbish items and dispose of them into a
bin.
Data: Items are randomly positioned on the workspace during both training and
inference. Background settings are varied across episodes.
T oy_Blocks
Protocol: The robot sorts various toy blocks into boxes with matching colors.
Data: The workspace contains 2 boxes and 4 blocks of different shapes and colors.
While training episodes involve picking two blocks, evaluation requires sorting 2 to
3 blocks.
Pen_Drawer
Protocol: The robot picks up pens from the desk, places them inside a drawer, and
then closes the drawer.
Data: Training data exclusively involves manipulating a single pen. Evaluation
requires the robot to place two pens into the drawer.
Ofﬁce_Desk
Protocol: The robot is required to organize a cluttered desk by placing items into a
designated organizer.
Data: The task involves individual object placements, including a whiteboard
eraser, a stapler, and a pen. The robot is required to sort all three objects in both
training and evaluation.
15

===== PDF PAGE 16 =====
Table 7. Overview of robot tasks and descriptions in our real-world dataset (Part II).
Task Example Detailed Description
Pick_T ool
Protocol: The robot identiﬁes a speciﬁc tool and places it into a target container.
Data: Both training and evaluation involve single-object manipulation. The task
includes 5 distinct tools (hammer, hand saw, screwdriver, pliers, and wrench).
Sort_Mask
Protocol: The robot distinguishes between N95 and surgical masks, sorting them
into separate boxes.
Data: Both training and evaluation involve two types of masks. The positions of
masks are randomly initialized.
Pack_T oolkit
Protocol: The robot retrieves designated tools, put them in the toolkit, and then
closes the toolkit lid.
Data: Both training and evaluation involve two target objects. Unseen objects were
introduced during the evaluation to test zero-shot abilities.
Pack_Flower
Protocol: The robot picks up ﬂowers on the desk and place them into a box.
Data: Both training and evaluation involve 2 to 3 ﬂowers. Additional distractors,
such as corn and grapes, are added to the workspace during evaluation.
16